# innocaption-shopping-cart
E-Commerce webpage with products display, searchable via name and category, and a functional cart, using dummyjson

## To get Started -

In the project directory, you can run:

### clone the repository

git clone https://github.com/bsilvers64/innocaption-shopping-cart.git

### npm i && npm start

go inside the folder "innocaption-shopping-cart" and perform this command - 

```npm i && npm start``` if running in cmd or git bash

otherwise you can separately do -

```npm install``` to install all dependencies

then to start the web-app -

```npm start```

### Notes - 
#
here are my notes/walkthrough for this project -

1. initialized with redux-template and tailwind css.

2. i have a feature called products list.

3. added the navbar feature - stacked layout. and we can pass children prop into it.

4. my components are feature-wise. while my pages are full view . example - I have a home-page, in which i put my navbar, inside navbar, I pass the productlist as child.

5. using react router for navigating between pages.

6. Fetching products with useEffect in ProductList component:
   This is executed by the fetchAllProducts async function (inside our thunk function) that returns our data from the API call and sets it to the action payload on fulfilled status.

7. ```createAsyncThunk()``` -> Thunk Action Creator:
   It takes two arguments:
   - ```typePrefix```: A string prefix for the action types generated by the thunk.
   - ```payloadCreator```: A function that returns a promise. This function is responsible for the asynchronous logic and must return a promise. The resolved value of the promise will be the payload of the action dispatched by the thunk when the async operation succeeds.

8. We made a lot of adjustments to the UI, added the cart button which will dynamically display the number of items, integrated a search bar into our main products body, etc.


9. we grabbed all the available categories from the dummyjson products. and put it in the filters. (done with quokka.js live output extension in vscode and some quick scripting)

10. now implemented the filters option, by making a new function in the api, modifies the query string based on the selected category. which from the component sends a dispatch and a thunk is created which calls our new filter products async function from api, which returns the filtered products and that is set to action payload, which is set to products state slice in fulfilled condition of the thunk.

11. since all the categories are exclusive, and no item has more than one categories, we implement so that at a time, only 1 category can be selected and if none then display all products.
```checked={option.value === filter}``` attribute inside the checkbox input.
checks which filter is currently set and keeps that option/category as selected, so it makes sure/keeps checked only that filter which is set after selecting a different category.

12. for our cart implementation, we have a cart slice of the state, with regular reducers to add and remove items from it. the cart is implemented purely with redux state management. we have reducers for adding and deleting items. we have added quantity property to the product 
to keep track of its amount in the cart.

13. search function is implemented by simply checking for the query string in our current product list from product state slice. we search for all item's titles, and look if any of those includes the terms in our query. I used "Starts with" scheme before where it matched items whose titles begin with the query, but that wasn't very flexible.
